So now that we have the data all prepared and we understand what the data is we are going to create
a model.
And we're going to feed the data to it.
This is the part of this core that we are not going to go into the detail right now.
So just as we came back to the code up top we are going to come back to this model after we have done
a little bit more on the theory side but at the moment all you need to understand is we have a sequential
model as we did in the previous videos.
We are adding a couple of layers over here and this first layer is very important.
I'm going to cover this in detail in this video but all of the other layers such as drop out on one
the max booting drop out.
We wanted to seem dense and we've seen activation but all of these Max pooling drop out and then a couple
of others as well.
They are going to be covered after we do a little bit of security but all you need to understand is
that we have a certain type of architecture over here that we've created.
And after that we have the same architecture of compiling and then fitting and evaluating to make sure
that we get the statistics out.
I'm going to run this in a minute but there is one layer that is extremely important and that we want
to cover lot here hit this video and that is the embedding layer.
So let's go back over here and see that in our data in this format that we have that we're trying to
feed through the model.
It has a couple of numbers already here.
So each number represents a word for instance let's pick this word over here 14 and this word over here
Twenty 22.
So as you can see these are two different words.
You cannot say that this word 14 is somehow smaller or greater than this word 22.
So the words that are corresponding to these numbers for instance if you go up over here and you see
that this does not look good translates to 14 127.
So this 14 is this and does is 127 but we know as humans that just because 40 is more than 127 it does
not mean that some other word this is smaller than the word does.
They do not have a compatible relationship with each other.
You cannot say that this is smaller than does or does smaller than this.
They are not compatible.
They are not ordered but because we are translating them into numbers.
The machine might be tempted to learn that a smaller number occurs more frequently because this the
word this occurs more frequently.
This is called the problem of fake ordering or incorrectly assumed ordering something like that and
we want to break that.
So we want to break the ordering between the different words.
How can we do that.
We are going to need some sort of a numerical representation for the machine to work with it.
So we cannot give it this and does it so we cannot use those words.
We have to use numbers but somehow we need to break these and one way to break those order rings is
by converting this word 14 into a vector as soon as you have a vector which is 2D and you represent
each number using a vector for instance you represent this word is not as 14 but as affected you can
break the ordering between these two because two vectors cannot be compared to each other.
You can compare the magnitude of vectors but you cannot compare the vectors themselves.
So anything that has to pass cannot be compared.
So there is a lot of tuning world over here.
We don't want to go into the detail of that but I'll give you a resource that you can read up if you
want to go into the details of this.
So if you want to take a look at the details of this you can search for love vectors for word representation.
So this is essentially what we're trying to do over here.
But using the neutral architecture instead of the glove model.
So you can download the code you can take a look at the paper or what here you can see the details in
your own time but all you need to understand is we are going from a single number to a vector.
And the idea is to break the ordering between the different numbers and to ensure that the vectors that
we get out have some sort of a semantic meaning related to the word.
So this 14 is arbitrary.
It does not have anything to do with this but once we can work this 14 into a vector it's going to have
some sort of a relationship.
For instance things that are related together are going to have similar vectors.
Right.
So that's essentially all you need to understand.
So what we want to do is create an embedding layer and embedding is essentially the representation of
a discrete value into a vector.
So this layer is going to create an embedding for us which is going to be a vector representation for
each word.
And after that we have a simple neural network that goes ahead and does its thing.
Right.
So this this layer is all you need to understand at the moment.
And the whole idea is quite simple.
The beauty is a little bit involved but the idea is simple and that's that we want to save the individual
world as a vector and not as an integer.
Right.
So once we have that we can go ahead and run this.
And this is going to execute and go ahead and run for two epochs or this might take a little bit of
time.
I'll jump ahead in time and come back as soon as this is done.
All right so another model is trained with a test accuracy of point 8 7 9 8.
Now what we want to do is we want to take the testing dataset and do a bit of analysis of what the results
look like.
So if we take a look at the first data point in the desert.
So that is what it looks like.
It's a fairly short review and we are going to essentially pass all of the testing data into the monitoring
function and it's going to give us some predictions for each review.
Now each prediction is going to be in the form of a number or a probability which is between zero and
one one being very confident that it's a positive review and zero being very confident that it's a negative
review and anything in between is a shade of gray.
So what we want to do is we want to convert them into either end e.g. or repeal us for negative and
positive.
So for all the predictions that we get out we are going to say neg if that prediction is less than zero
point five.
Otherwise we're going to say it's positive.
Right.
So let's get on that.
So this essentially going to run the predictions for all the different data points in the desert and
it's going to give us back the predictions.
Now take a look at some of these.
So what people typically do is they come over here.
They run the model and they do the learning and then they get this accuracy out and then they're done
and they stopped it.
Now it's very important to not stop there but go ahead and understand what you've gotten and take a
look at the results in a lot more detail and that is what we're doing here.
We're looking at the prediction for the test and we're going to take a look at the review.
So we're going to take this data point.
So the first data point in our test said we are going to decode it and do it an actual sentence using
our function helper function that we defined in the previous video and we are going to take a look at
the prediction that has been made for this specific review.
So this one requires a lot of something because it focuses on mood and character.
The plot is very simple et cetera et cetera.
It's definitely one of our target characters and so on and so forth.
The machine decided that this is a positive review so you can read the whole thing and decide whether
the machine was right or not.
But we're not interested in the actual accuracy at this point.
What we want to do is we want to go ahead and create some of our own sentences now and take a look at
how the machine does for these new sentences that it has never seen.
So for instance once you have done the model training on I am DV data set now you can go ahead and use
this same sentiment analysis model that you have now trained and saved some of it.
We'll cover that in one of the future videos.
You can load the model and you can give it tweets that are made by your users for your product that
you have just launched.
And without having to do any more training you can decide whether the sentiment is positive or negative.
So for instance imagine that these are some tweets I do not like it at all.
LOVEDAY did not love it and so on and so forth.
You take these you encode the sentence.
So this death sentence you encoded and what you get you would recall that encode sentence is going to
return a sequence of ideas corresponding to the different words in the sentence and b appendix into
this list.
Right.
So we take all three or four sentences and append them all in here.
This can be a large number of tweets or just one tweet one at a time anywhere you want to do it.
So now we have all the tweets all your sentences that you want to analyze in your last sentence is really
what we are going to pad them as before because that is what the model requires.
And now we have better things.
And if we take a look at the shape it's going to be for comma 400 because that was our max length.
So now we have a data that can be fed into the model and just as you did with the test set we are going
to use model predict and we are going to pass this test sentences to it then we are going to do the
same thing for sentiment.
We're going to get a negative or pass out based on the prediction made by the model and this overhead
we are simply trying to output these different sentences that we have and sentiments that the has computers.
So if you run that you will see that I do not like this at all has been decided as a negative which
is correct I would say loved it is positive.
You can be you can get more positive than that did not limit is negative.
These three look fine.
The problem is with the fourth one.
So cannot say that I loved it.
Now the machine was hoodwinked into deciding that this is a positive review because it has the word
loved in it.
But this one had loving it as well but that was correctly identified as being negative because if they
did not.
So the machine is having trouble with negatives which are spaced away from the positives.
Right.
So Canada is slightly away from love.
So it's incorrectly being predicted but that's the whole point of this video.
Once you understand your data once you understand how to look at the predictions made by the machine
then you can understand what the problem is.
Then you can go ahead and find out a model that can handle this problem much better.
So we can come to different other models in one of the future videos.
But for now what we have done is we have trained a machine which can now take any sentence that does
not have to do anything at all with any movies MTV TV or anything else.
And it can predict the sentiment because of the training that we have done and now we can take this
model and use it to make predictions about the sentiments of any tax that we can throw at it.
So essentially we have gone from just a theoretical understanding on an academic understanding of learning
or sentiment analysis to doing sentiment analysis in the digital world.
And that I think is a strength of this practical approach that we have followed in this course.